CHAPTER 9 - RECOMMNEDATION SYSTEMS ------------------------------


Use:		Predicting user responses to options. 
Ex:		Offering news articles to online newspaper readers based on a 
		prediction of the readers interests
		Offering customers of an on-line retailer suggestion about what they 
		might buy

Approaches	Content based - properties of the items.  Ex viewer who watches a lot of western
				movies, the characteristic would be cowboy movies. 
		Collaborative - recommend items based on similarity measures between 
				users and or items.  The items recommended to a user are those
				liked by similar users.  So you are 30, single, live in Atlanta, 
				etc, so we predict you will like this type of movie.

Model for Recommendation Systems

1.) Utility Matrix:
		
		Objects = users and items
		Matrix  = Each user-item pair. 
		Values	= represents what is known about the degree of preference of that user
			  for that item.  Values come from an ordered set, ex 1-5. 
		Assumptions
			= We assume the matrix is sparse, i.e. a lot of unkowns. 
		Ex	= Index=users, Row=rating for each movie. 
		Obj:	= the object of the system is to predict the blanks, i.e. the movies that
			  the user has not yet rated. 
2.) Practical Application

		Brick-and-mortor
			= Finite space and resources.  Can't tailor entire store to customer. 
			= Physical newspaper can only print so many articles per day.  An online
			  newspaper can print hundreds of thousands. 

		Online Store
			= Almost infinit possibilities. Show n number of products to customer base
			  on their preferences.  Possibility exists to "tailor" store to each 
		          customers' preferences. 

 
		Long-tail phenomenon
			= Distinction between the physical and virtual store.
			= Physical institutions can only provide what is popular while
			  online retailers can provide all items. The author seems to infer from
			  this that online retailers then have the unique challenge of 
			  identifying and understanding user preferences to only display what
			  they like. (note:  not sure this is the current trend at retailers)

		Netflix Challenge
			  $1m prize awareded in 2009 to an algorithm that could beat theirs by 
			  10%.  Took 3 years of competition to get a winner.  Level of importance
			  Netflix put on recommendations. 


		Application to Underwriting:
			Ratings could be whether or not we quoted, which unfortunately is binary. 
			Characteristics could be those of the account (requires account data). 
			Note:  	Similar to what the author describes as the Netflix mode - 
				user watched the movie so they must like it. 

		Systems:
			Content based:  based on the properties of items.  Similar items determined
					by measuring the similarity of their characteristics.
			Collaborative:	relationship between users and items. 
					similarity of items is determined by the similarity
					of the ratings of those items by the users who have
					rated both items. 


		Systems:
			Content based:  based on the properties of items.  Similar items determined
					by measuring the similarity of their characteristics.
			Collaborative:	relationship between users and items. 
					similarity of items is determined by the similarity
					of the ratings of those items by the users who have
					rated both items. 


		Systems:
			Content based:  based on the properties of items.  Similar items determined
					by measuring the similarity of their characteristics.
			Collaborative:	relationship between users and items. 
					similarity of items is determined by the similarity
					of the ratings of those items by the users who have
					rated both items. 


3.) Content Based Systems

		Movie Features		First step is to define these characteristics.
					Ex genre, actors, producers, etc. 
		

4.) Word Importance
		In information retrieval, tf–idf or TFIDF, short for 
		term frequency–inverse document frequency, is a 
		numerical statistic that is intended to reflect 
		how important a word is to a document in a 
		collection or corpus.[1]

		The tf-idf value increases proportionally to the number of times a word
		appears in the document and is offset by the number of documents in the corpus
		that contain the word, which helps to adjust for the fact that some
		words appear more frequently in general. 

		One approach to document classification is to take those words with the 
		highest TF.IDF score. 

		Other Measurements:	Cosine distance, Jaccard distance. 


5.) 9.2.4 Representing Item Profiles 

		Numerical Features:	Cannot be represented by Boolean vectors.  Feature should
					represent the exact value of the feature. 
					*When mixing boolean and continuous variables we should
					take care to adjust the scaling for the continuos v's.  





 



